---
layout: post
title: "Discipline, Big Talk, and Self-Teaching"
description: "About 180-websites-in-180-days project"
category: diary
tags: nonsense Codecademy
---

A site has become quite popular recently. A young art graduate decided to teach herself programming, by making "180 websites in 180 days." She started the [project](http://jenniferdewalt.com/) and an accompanying [blog](http://blog.jenniferdewalt.com/). 

When I saw her blog, my first impression was a definite "Wow," and then I checked the sites that she had made. I expected them to be shabby and raw, but they were not. Today, the 120th website is open: She has worked non-stop for four months, bringing out a new site everyday. There is yet another two months to ago. Of course she can make it. 

I am jealous of her. 

She has time and resources. She comes from a culture where young graduates do not have to save up and buy their own apartments before they get married, where taking a gap year is a common choice, and where she can quit her job to realize her goals. 
 
The fact is, no, I am just ashamed of myself. 

I wanted to build websites, too. I wanted to learn coding, tried several times, and always ended up in "Oh, that's too hard for me now. Maybe I'll do it later."

In fact, during my last attempt, I worked on [Codecademy](http://www.codecademy.com/sighsmile) for a couple of weeks, even finished Web Fundamentals(HTML, CSS and a bit of jQuery) and Python tracks. I ordered two or three textbooks from my publisher. Then I was again off to nothing. When I was setting this blog, I found I forgot most things I had learned about websites. I could barely read the template, let alone modify it.    

No more excuses. No more if-I-leave-this-job-then-I-will-have-time-to-do-things stuff. I have some time: 3~4 hours per workday, plus two days at the end of the week. Not much, but enough to do lots of things. 

Yes, I did enjoy the months before I got into my current job: I learned Japanese through books and videos in those months, and passed the second highest level in [JLPT](http://www.jlpt.jp/)(Japanese-Language Proficiency Test) the day before I started this new job. I can get things done. The fact is that *I do not lack ideas or brains; I need strong discipline and time management*. 

I will focus on French and Python this time, and keep my job until significantly more time is needed. If I give up again... no way!
